---
title: "Delivering on Key Equity Goal, Pritzker Administration Awards $31.5 Million in First Ever Restore, Reinvest, and Renew Program Grants to Organizations Across the State"
showInSitemap: true
banner: false
bannerText: "ICJIA Announces R3 Grant Awards"
showToc: false
showInFooter: false
showInNav: false
showInSidebar: false
posted: "2021-01-21"
summary: "Using revenue from adult-use cannabis sales, the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority (ICJIA) today announced 80 grants totaling $31.5 million to organizations to help the communities hardest hit by the failed war on drugs. The organizations’ work includes violence prevention, legal aid, and re-entry services."
---

CHICAGO— Using revenue from adult-use cannabis sales, the Illinois Criminal Justice
Information Authority (ICJIA) today announced 80 grants totaling $31.5 million to
organizations to help the communities hardest hit by the failed war on drugs. The
organizations’ work includes violence prevention, legal aid, and re-entry services.
The grants are part of the Restore, Reinvest, and Renew (R3) Program, which was
created as a key equity element of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (CRTA), signed
by Governor Pritzker in 2019. The law requires that 25 percent of all cannabis revenue be
used to support communities impacted by economic disinvestment, violence, and the
severe and disproportionate damage caused by the war on drugs, largely and
disproportionately impacted low income Illinoisans and communities of color.

Awardees include nonprofit organizations, local units of government, tax-exempt faithbased organizations, businesses, and other community organizations that serve residents
of—or are based in—designated eligible R3 zones.

“Following a successful first year of cannabis sales, the Restore, Reinvest, and Renew
grant program is delivering tens of millions of dollars to our communities most impacted
by the war on drugs. I’m so proud to see this key equity goal in cannabis legalization
move forward and I applaud the leaders in the General Assembly, ICJIA, and
stakeholders across the state who made this moment possible,” said Governor JB
Pritzker. “By awarding this first round of R3 grants, we are taking another important
step toward undoing the harms of the past, and Lt. Governor Stratton and I will continue
to ensure equity is a top priority as the cannabis program moves forward.”

“The R3 program will tackle chronic problems that have gone unaddressed for far too
long in our underserved neighborhoods,” said Lieutenant Governor Juliana
Stratton. “The collaboration between the Justice, Equity, and Opportunity Initiative
and ICJIA is innovative and reinvents the grant process with community inclusion and
promotes a standard for equity and success that other states will hopefully take note of
and emulate.”

The funds will be administered in the 2021 calendar year and include $28.3 million to
support service delivery and $3.1 million for assessment and planning initiatives.
ICJIA received 398 completed applications, which were reviewed by criminal justice
practitioners, community stakeholders, and formerly justice-involved individuals. All
reviewers received implicit bias training along with training on application review. In
addition, the Justice, Equity and Opportunity Initiative played a pivotal role in ensuring
equity and restorative justice frameworks were centered in every decision throughout the
review process. Funded programs will offer evidence-based, promising, or innovative
practices within the R3 Program Priority Areas of civil legal aid, economic development,
community re-entry from the criminal justice system, violence prevention, and youth
development.

“We are incredibly proud of the groundbreaking work we’ve participated in to transform
how grantmaking can be used to address local needs and build capacity within our
communities,” said ICJIA Deputy Director Charise Williams. “Our research and
grants units have worked tirelessly to ensure the organizations on the frontlines of
renewing our communities receive the support they need.”

[Download full press release &raquo;](01.21.21_ICJIA_R3_Grants_Release_Final.pdf) {.text-center .mt-8}
