---
title: "Pritzker Administration Awards $3.5 Million in Restore, Reinvest, and Renew Program Grants in Response to Summer Violence"
showInSitemap: true
banner: false
bannerText: "Pritzker Administration Awards $3.5 Million in Restore, Reinvest, and Renew Program Grants in Response to Summer Violence."
showToc: false
showInFooter: false
showInNav: false
showInSidebar: false
posted: "2021-07-15"
summary: "CHICAGO -- Using revenue generated from adult-use cannabis sales, the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority (ICJIA) today announced 21 grants totaling $3.5 million to organizations offering young people and emerging adults (ages 10 to 25) pro-social activities that may reduce violence and victimization or provide increased street intervention this summer."
---

**CHICAGO** — Using revenue generated from adult-use cannabis sales, the Illinois
Criminal Justice Information Authority (ICJIA) today announced 21 grants totaling $3.5
million to organizations offering young people and emerging adults (ages 10 to 25) prosocial activities that may reduce violence and victimization or provide increased street
intervention this summer. Grant awards will support three months of programming, from
July 1 to September 30.

The grants are part of the Restore, Reinvest, and Renew (R3) Program, created to
promote equity within the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, signed by Governor
Pritzker in 2019. The Act states 25 percent of all cannabis revenue must be used to
support communities harmed by violence, excessive incarceration, and economic
disinvestment.

“We have to address the root causes of violence and invest in communities and the
people who deserve more resources and opportunities than they have historically been
given” said Lieutenant Governor Juliana Stratton. “These grants will increase
programming, job opportunities, provide safe spaces, and other positive outlets for youth
and emerging adults. When we empower people, we change lives and communities.”
Chicago Police Department crime data recorded monthly over the past decade show
violent crime totals are routinely highest from June to August. Other large urban areas
across the state also experience high crime and anticipate an increase in violent crime
during the summer months. Funding was made available to organizations that serve
communities in Aurora, Bloomington, Champaign, Chicago, Decatur, East St. Louis,
Joliet, Peoria, Rockford, Springfield, Suburban Cook County, and Waukegan.

“Using a public health approach, this emergency response to summer violence will
expand and increase resources aimed at addressing the risk of escalating violence, which
is experienced each year in the state’s most vulnerable communities,” said Acting ICJIA
Executive Director Delrice Adams.

Funded organizations have at least two years of experience providing violence
prevention, intervention, or reduction services and the capacity and ability to
independently operate and expand the program. Current R3 grantees and subgrantees
were not eligible for the grants.

Applications were reviewed by of ICJIA staff, external experts, and community members
from R3 zones. Additional points were given to organizations headquartered in
communities they proposed to serve, whose composition resembled that of the
community they proposed to serve, and whose models incorporated community members
in service delivery. Organizations with operating budgets of less than $2 million also
received additional points.

[Download full press release &raquo;](07.16.21ICJIASummerViolenceGrantsRelease.pdf) {.text-center .mt-8}
